[2.9.0] #1151 Add documentation for OCI feature in Apps & Marketplace Section (#1171)
rancher/rancher-docs: versioned_docs/version-2.9/how-to-guides/new-user-guides/helm-charts-in-rancher/oci-registries.md

## Size Limitations of OCI-Based Helm Chart Repositories in Rancher

Due to security concerns, there are limitations on how large of a Helm chart you can deploy through an OCI-based repository, and how much metadata you can use to describe the Helm charts within a single OCI endpoint.

Rancher can deploy OCI Helm charts up to 20 MB in size.

## Rate Limiting of OCI-Based Helm Chart Repositories

Different OCI registries implement rate limiting in different ways. 

Most servers return a `Retry-After` header, indicating how long to wait before rate-limiting is lifted. 

Dockerhub returns a `429` status code when it completes all allocated requests. It also returns a `RateLimit-Remaining` header which describes the rate limiting policy. 

Rancher currently checks for the `Retry-After` header. It also handles Dockerhub-style responses and automatically waits before making a new request. When handling Dockerhub-style responses, Rancher ignores `ExponentialBackOff` values. 

If you have a OCI-based Helm chart repository which doesn't implement the `Retry-After` header, or which behaves differently than Dockerhub, provide your response values with the `ExponentialBackOff` field. 

> For example, if you have an OCI-based Helm chart repository that doesn't send a HTTP header, but you know that it allows 50 requests in 24 hours, you can provide a `MinWait` value of 86400 seconds, a `MaxWait` of 90000 seconds, and a `Maxretry` of `1`. <!-- I'm not sure what these two sentences from the draft mean? --> This would allow adding the Helm repository complete but it would take 24 hours if Rancher gets rate limited. There is no user intervention needed here.<!-- end -->

Author: Thanks! Updating and adding to next commit

---
title: Using OCI-Based Helm Chart Repositories
---

<head>
  <link rel="canonical" href="https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/how-to-guides/new-user-guides/helm-charts-in-rancher/oci-registries"/>
</head>

Helm v3 introduced storing Helm charts as [Open Container Initiative (OCI)](https://opencontainers.org/about/overview/) artifacts in container registries. With Rancher v2.9.0, you can add [OCI-based Helm chart repositories](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/registries/) alongside HTTP-based and Git-based repositories. This means that you can deploy apps that are stored as OCI artifacts. As of Rancher v2.9.0, this feature is experimental.

## Add an OCI-Based Helm Chart Repository

To add an OCI-based Helm chart repository through the Rancher UI:

1. Click **☰ > Cluster Management**.
2. Find the name of the cluster whose repositories you want to access. Click **Explore** at the end of the cluster's row.
3. In the left navigation bar, select **Apps > Repositories**.

> 4. Click **Create**.

Reviewer: Can we add a screenshot here, similar to [this](https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/v2.9/integrations-in-rancher/rancher-extensions) one in the extension doc in step 3.3?

Author: I don't have access to this version of Rancher I don't think, so we'd need some help to create the screenshot

5. Enter a **Name** for the registry. Select **OCI Repository** as the target.
6. Enter the **OCI Repository Host URL** for the registry. The registry endpoint must not contain anything besides OCI Helm Chart artifacts. The artifacts should all have unique names. If you attempt to add an endpoint that contains any other kinds of files or artifacts, the OCI repository will not be added. 
  
  :::note
  

>   You can use the **OCI URL** field to finetune how many charts from the registry are availabe for installation on Rancher. More generic endpoints target more charts, as the following examples demonstrate:

Reviewer: Do we need to add this section? AFAIK, this is standard for every oci registry, not something specific to Rancher. 
@rohitsakala keep me honest here

  - **oci://\<registry-host\>/**: Every chart in the registry becomes available for installation, regardless of namespace or tag.
  - **oci://\<registry-host\>/\<namespace\>**: Every chart in the specified namespace within the registry becomes available for installation.
  - **oci://\<registry-host\>/\<namespace\>/\<chart-name\>**: Only the specified chart and any associated tags or versions of that chart become available for installation.
  - **oci://\<registry-host\>/\<namespace\>/\<chart-name\>:\<tag\>**: Only the chart with the specified tag becomes available for installation.
  
  :::

7. Set up authentication. Select **Basicauth** from the authentication field and enter a username and password as required. Otherwise, create or select an **Authentication** secret. See [Authentication](#authentication-for-oci-based-helm-chart-repositories) for a full description.
8. (optional) Enter a base64 encoded DER certificate in the **CA Cert Bundle** field. This field is for cases where you have a private OCI-based Helm chart repository and need Rancher to trust its certificates.   

> 9. (optional) To allow insecure connections without performing an SSL check, select **Skip TLS Verification**. To force Rancher to use HTTP instead of HTTPS to send requests to the repsoitory, select **Insecure Plain Http**. See  [Authentication](#authentication-for-oci-based-helm-chart-repositories) for more details.

Author: ```suggestion
9. (optional) To allow insecure connections without performing an SSL check, select **Skip TLS Verification**. To force Rancher to use HTTP instead of HTTPS to send requests to the repository, select **Insecure Plain Http**.
```

> 10. (optional) If you know that your repository may respond with status code `429 Too Many Requests` (for example, if your repository is on DockerHub), fill out the fields under **Exponential Back Off**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. (optional) If your repository has a rate-limiting policy and may respond with status code `429 Too Many Requests` (for example, if your repository is on DockerHub), you may want to fill out the fields under **Exponential Back Off**:
```

>   1. **Min Wait**: The default is 1 second.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. **Min Wait**: The minimum duration in seconds that Rancher should wait before retrying.  The default is 1 second.
```

>   1. **Max Wait**: The default is 1 second.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. **Max Wait**: The maximum duration in seconds that Rancher should wait before retrying.  The default is 5 second.
```

The default value is 5 seconds

---

> title: Using OCI Helm Chart Registries

Author: Updated

---

<head>
  <link rel="canonical" href="https://ranchermanager.docs.rancher.com/how-to-guides/new-user-guides/helm-charts-in-rancher/oci-registries"/>
</head>

> Helm v3 introduced storing Helm charts as [Open Container Initiative (OCI)](https://opencontainers.org/about/overview/) artifacts in container registries. With Rancher v2.9.0, you can add [OCI-based Helm chart registries](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/registries/) alongside http- and Git-based repositories. This means you can deploy apps that are stored as OCI artifacts.

Author: Updated to, "As of Rancher v2.9.0, this feature is experimental."

> ## Add an OCI Registry

Author: Updated

> Helm v3 introduced storing Helm charts as [Open Container Initiative (OCI)](https://opencontainers.org/about/overview/) artifacts in container registries. With Rancher v2.9.0, you can add [OCI-based Helm chart registries](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/registries/) alongside http- and Git-based repositories. This means that you can deploy apps that are stored as OCI artifacts. As of Rancher v2.9.0, this feature is experimental.

Author: In this case, the title of the page at https://helm.sh/docs/topics/registries/ is "Use OCI-based registries"

To add an OCI registry through the Rancher UI:

1. Click **☰ > Cluster Management**.
2. Find the name of the cluster whose repositories you want to access. Click **Explore** at the end of the cluster's row.
3. In the left navigation bar, select **Apps > Repositories**.
4. Click **Create**.
5. Enter a **Name** and **Description** for the registry. Select **OCI** as the target.

> 6. Enter the URL for the registry. The registry endpoint must not contain anything besides OCI Helm Chart artifacts. If you attempt to add an endpoint that contains any other kinds of files or artifacts, the OCI registry will not be added. 

Author: Updated

> 6. Enter the URL for the registry. The registry endpoint must not contain anything besides OCI Helm Chart artifacts. If you attempt to add an endpoint that contains any other kinds of files or artifacts, the OCI registry will not be added. 

Author: Added, "The artifacts should all have unique names."

  
  :::note
  
  You can use the **OCI URL** field to finetune how many charts from the registry are availabe for installation on Rancher. More generic endpoints target more charts, as the following examples demonstrate:

  - **oci://\<registry-host\>/**: Every chart in the registry becomes available for installation, regardless of namespace or tag.
  - **oci://\<registry-host\>/\<namespace\>**: Every chart in the specified namespace within the registry becomes available for installation.
  - **oci://\<registry-host\>/\<namespace\>/\<chart-name\>**: Only the specified chart and any associated tags or versions of that chart become available for installation.
  - **oci://\<registry-host\>/\<namespace\>/\<chart-name\>:\<tag\>**: Only the chart with the specified tag becomes available for installation.
  
  :::

7. Select **Basicauth** from the authentication field and enter a username and password as required. 
8. Add any labels and annotations.
9. Click **Create**.

It may take some time for the OCI registry to activate. This is particularly true if the OCI endpoint contains multiple repositories. 

## Authentication for OCI Registries

> Rancher supports BasicAuth for OCI registries. You must create a [**BasicAuth** Kubernetes secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#basic-authentication-secret). You can [create the secret through the Rancher UI](../kubernetes-resources-setup/secrets.md). 

Author: Updated

> Rancher 2.9.0 also adds the `spec.insecurePlainHttp` field, which allows insecure connections to OCI registries. When this field is set to `true`, Rancher connects to the OCI endpoint without performing an SSL check. This works exactly the same as how the `spec.insecurePlainHttp` field works in [ORAS CLI](https://oras.land/docs/commands/use_oras_cli), since Rancher uses the ORAS library.

Author: Do you mean "Explanation of fields"? It seems like we should explain those fields in context with the steps they are related to. "There are more fields that the user can define". Where do these fields appear and how can the user define them? Do they all appear on the same screen where the user sets up authentication?

> Rancher 2.9.0 also adds the `spec.insecurePlainHttp` field, which allows insecure connections to OCI registries. When this field is set to `true`, Rancher connects to the OCI endpoint without performing an SSL check. This works exactly the same as how the `spec.insecurePlainHttp` field works in [ORAS CLI](https://oras.land/docs/commands/use_oras_cli), since Rancher uses the ORAS library.

Author: Ok, I added the explanations as part of the step-by-step instructions, in order of where they appear in the UI

The CRD that is linked to the OCI Helm registry is `ClusterRepo`.

[Screenshot of the ClusterRepo YAML]<!-- Engineers - Can we get this screenshot? Thank you! -->

## View Helm Charts in OCI Registries

To view Helm charts in the OCI registry after it achieves an `Active` state:

1. Click **☰**. Under **Explore Cluster** in the left navigation menu, select a cluster.
1. Click **Apps > Charts**.
1. Select the OCI repository from the dropdown.

> ## Refresh an OCI Registry

Author: Rate limiting section added

1. Click **☰ > Cluster Management**.
1. Find the name of the cluster whose repositories you want to access. Click **Explore** at the end of the cluster's row.
1. In the left navigation bar, select **Apps > Repositories**.
1. Find the row associated with the OCI registry, and click **⋮**.
1. From the submenu, select **Edit Config**.

## Delete an OCI Registry

1. Click **☰ > Cluster Management**.
1. Find the name of the cluster whose repositories you want to access. Click **Explore** at the end of the cluster's row.
1. In the left navigation bar, select **Apps > Repositories**.
1. Select the row associated with the OCI registry, and click **Delete**.

## Limitations of OCI-based Helm Chart Registries in Rancher

Due to security concerns, there are limitations on how large of a Helm chart you can deploy through an OCI-based registry, and how much metadata you can use to describe the Helm charts within a single OCI endpoint.

Rancher can deploy OCI Helm charts up to 20 MB in size.

The metadata field in index.yaml can store up to 30 MB of information about the Helm charts within an OCI-based registry.

## Troubleshooting OCI-based Helm Registries <!-- Unedited draft -->

> To view logs, enable the debug option of rancher 

Author: This section has now been edited and the link has been added

> The first option if there is any discrepancy is to refresh a cluster repository 

Author: https://github.com/rancher/rancher-docs/pull/1171#discussion_r1534122129

> I left this section unedited because it needs more descriptive instructions. I wasn't sure where in the UI to turn on debugging or which page in the docset we could point to for instructions.
